# v5.0.0

Major Updates
----
1. Added standalone running mode `swoole-cli`
2. Adjusted `PHP` minimum version requirement to `8.0`
3. Strong typing, all function and class methods' parameters and return values are now strongly typed
4. Enhanced underlying service governance capabilities
5. Removed some historical legacy features

New Running Mode (`swoole-cli`)
----
In version `5.0`, `swoole-cli` support has been added. `Swoole` will be provided to users as a standalone program like `node.js`, rather than as an extension of `PHP`.
Additionally, `swoole-cli` will trim `php-src` as much as possible, removing unnecessary mechanisms, modules, extensions, functions, types, constants, and code, allowing the whole program to be compiled in minutes.

```shell
htf@htf-ThinkPad-T470p:~/workspace$ ./swoole-cli -v
Swoole 5.0.0 (cli) (built: Nov 26 2021 07:22:46) 
```

### Statically Compiled with No Dependencies
`swoole-cli` will use entirely static compilation linking, with `libc` and `libstdc++` using `musl`, and will include `openssl` and `curl` libraries and extensions. Users can modify the build script to add more third-party extensions. This allows `swoole` programs to be distributed and run on any `Linux` system without depending on any system-issued `.so` files.

```shell
htf@htf-ThinkPad-T470p:~/workspace$ ldd swoole-cli
Not a dynamic executable
htf@htf-ThinkPad-T470p:~/workspace$ 
```

### Removal of Dynamic Extension Loading Mechanism
Removed the `dl()` function and the dynamic extension loading mechanism of configuring `extension={name}.so` in `php.ini`. All extensions must be statically compiled.
`swoole-cli` allows for custom build systems to add extensions to the module list.

### Removal of `php -S` Built-in Server
No longer makes sense in the `swoole` environment

### Removal of Built-in Extensions
Removed low-usage, historical legacy, and non-coroutine supporting built-in extensions, including but not limited to:
```
com_dotnet
dba
ftp
ffi
imap
ldap
oci8
odbc
pdo_dblib
pdo_firebird
pdo_oci
pdo_odbc
pdo_pgsql
pgsql
pspell
shmop
snmp
sysvmsg
sysvsem
tidy
```

### Removal of Some Functions
Removed non-`cli` mode, low-usage, historical legacy, and non-coroutine supporting built-in functions, including but not limited to:
```
checkdnsrr
dns_check_record
dns_get_mx
header
header_register_callback
header_remove
session_start
mail
```

### Removal of ZTS
Removed the `ZTS` mode, which is meaningless in `cli` mode.

Large File Uploads
----
Starting from version `5.0`, the `HTTP` server has added support for large file uploads. By setting the `upload_max_filesize` parameter, you can control the maximum file size allowed for upload.
Different from `package_max_length`, the feature for uploading large files directly writes the file content from the `form-data` into a temporary file. This way, it doesn't consume a lot of memory and can successfully upload large files.
You can set `package_max_length` to `2M` and `upload_max_filesize` to `2G`, requiring only `2M` of memory per connection to upload a `2G` file.

```php
$server->set([
    'upload_max_filesize' => 2 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024, // 2G
    'package_max_length' => 2 * 1024 * 1024, // 2M
]);
```

Detailed List
----
### Additions
- Added `Server` configuration: `max_concurrency`, restricts the maximum concurrent request count for `HTTP1/2` services, returning a `503` error if exceeded
- Added `Coroutine\Http\Client` configuration: `max_retries`, automatically switches nodes for retrying in case of connection failures or `HTTP 502/503` errors
- Added `name_resolver` global configuration, strengthening domain name resolution capabilities; before `5.0`, domain names could only be resolved using `DNS`, but now, `name_resolver` can be configured to change name resolution to use services like `Consul` or `Nacos` for service discovery
- Added `Coroutine::getExecuteTime()`, to retrieve the actual execution time of a coroutine (excluding time spent in `yield` state)
- Added `upload_max_filesize` configuration, allowing for uploading large files

### Enhancements
- Strong typing, added type constraints to all function and class method parameters and return values
- Changed all constructor methods to throw exceptions on failure

### Removals
- Removed `PSR-0` style class names, for example, `swoole_http_server` should be changed to `Swoole\Http\Server`
- Removed automatic addition of `Event::wait()` in `shutdown function`; must now explicitly call `Event::wait()` to enter event waiting, or use `Co\run()`, `Server::start()`, `Process::start()`, `Process\Pool::start()`, or similar containers
- Removed `Server::tick/after/clearTimer/defer` aliases; use `Timer::tick()/Timer::after()/Timer::clear()/Event::defer()` directly
